---
layout: post
title: "Ambition"
---
# Ambition

Now that we are hiring at Platform161 I spent some time thinking about values and culture at the workplace. There is one term that, in my opinion, is completely misunderstood. Ambition.

**Warning**: All the things I am about to write are my opinions and of course they are highly opinionated.

We had a discussion because of a candidate that came here saying that he aspired to manage a team of people in 5 years. In my opinion that is not what I’d like to see. Why? That is not the kind of ambition I want to see. That is climbing the ladder.

### The question

*What are your goals? What do you want/like to do?*

I want to know what drives a candidate. What he likes to do with his life. I want to ensure that I am able to provide and he is aligned with us.

*Not so good answer*

I want to follow the career plan. I want to manage 5 people in X years.

You being in a position of having people under your responsibility is not a goal. Is a consequence. Also I’m hiring somebody whose goal is not what he is going to do. His efforts will be focused on switching positions instead of getting better.

*Better answer*

I’d like to learn X,Y and Z. I’d like to do A, B and C. All those things are supposed to be done here in the position I’m getting in.

I am able to say if am am able to make you reach your goals. I am able to see if you will be happy here. I am able to see if the company will get profit for you achieving your goals.

This is the ambition I love. You want to become better. It won’t be you against your peers. It will be you against yourself.

For me, finding a person that wants to become a manager is a warning point. Really. The best managers I’ve ever met didn’t want to become managers. Let me write it in a bigger font.

## The best managers I’ve ever met didn’t want to become managers.

If you are responsible for a team the worst thing you can do is become different. The kind of management that always worked for me is the kind of role model you can identify with. As a “managee” you want to somehow become that person. You don’t want that person’s position. He wants the same kind of things you want. You are all in the same boat.

If a software developer joins the team I work in I want him to become a better developer. That is what I aspire too and we all can go in the same direction. We can help each other.

There is some funny thing about the wrong kind of ambition. I think that deep inside it is only that they want a better salary disguised in wanting a different position. There is nothing wrong with ambitioning a better salary. But why don’t people want a better salary by being more valuable instead of being in a more expensive position? Why don’t you start in the kind of work you want to do?

Maybe all this is because I am a software developer and I deeply love my profession. I can’t see myself doing a different thing. Maybe it is because of that that I like to be in a corporate culture where we all go together to the same goal.
